========================
The EuroSciPy conference
========================

Why EuroSciPy ?
===============

The Python programming language provides a full ecosystem for scientific
computing. All the tools that are important in the daily work of scientific
research can be found within the scientific Python libraries: reading files,
analyzing and fitting data, 2D plotting, 3D data visualization, experimental
apparatus control, numerical computations, ... As Python is also a complete
programming language, it enables the scientist to build custom tools that are
integrated via a network, that provide a GUI or that are part of a web service,
for instance.

Given the increasing role of the computer in all fields of science and given the
power of the tools that are becoming accessible to the scientists, a community
has formed around the solutions that are based on Python. One of the core
components on which the scientific libraries for Python build upon in the NumPy
library that provides an unparalleled array interface.

The EuroSciPy conference serves several purposes:

1. Provide state of the art tutorials given by recognized experts on how to take
   advantage of Python for science.
2. Share the latest scientific advances that are enabled by Python-based tools.
3. Provide a forum for the discussion regarding important projects from the
   scientific Python community.

As is explained in the subsequent paragraphs, the EuroSciPy conference has
attracted the leading players of scientific Python in Europe and is a real
success. The importance of computing, and especially of Python-enabled
computing, is not going to disappear anytime soon and the EuroSciPy conference
is positioning itself as one of the building blocks, on a European level, of
scientific Python community.

First conference
================

The first EuroSciPy meeting took place in Leipzig in 2008 whereas a similar
event was already being organized in the US. EuroSciPy 2008 was a two day
conference focused on the scientific applications of Python in science. The
variety of topics discussed was already quite wide, reflecting the applicability
of Python scientific tools to various fields of science: particle physics,
systems biology, machine learning, simulation science, ...

The organizer of the first conference is Mike Mueller, CEO of Python Academy, a
german software training company. Mike Mueller has remained part of the
organization of the conference until now and has accepted to remain part of the
team for EuroSciPy 2012 and 2013.

Subsequent editions
===================

EuroSciPy took place again in 2009 in Leipzig, then in 2010 and 2011 in Paris at
the Ecole Nationale Superieure. There, a strong local team composed of active
members of the scientific Python community provided support for continuing the
conference series with a truly European scope. A French company active in free
software and Python, Logilab, also provided support. The 2012 and 2013 editions
took place in Brussels.

The conference grew by the addition, in 2010, of two tutorial tracks that
proposes to attending scientists either

* A first training on the founding tools of the scientific Python tools.
* An advanced training on the leading tools and techniques in the scientific
  Python tools.

Other additions include

* Satellites

    Satellite conferences have been held in 2011 on the topics of "Python in
    neuroscience" and "Python in physics". These were one day events taking
    place the day following the main conference and focusing on the use of
    Python in a specific scientific field.

* Sprints

    A sprint is a gathering of participants to a software project. As the usual
    work method is to use online tools (mailing-lists, wikis, ...), the
    EuroSciPy conference provides an appropriate meeting opportunity to perform
    work on related projects.

Projects for EuroSciPy
======================

The EuroSciPy conference aims at being the reference conference for scientific
Python in Europe. To achieve that goal, it is of importance to imply scientists
from different countries in the organization. This is already the case and will
most certainly continue in the future.

The conference has no ambition to grow much in number of participants as the
interactions between participants made possible by its actual size are
appreciated.
